---
title: "Compress Your HTML Responses"
description: "Heroku doesn't compress your applications’s responses, you should."
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2021/compress-your-rails-html-responses-on-heroku'
  alt: "Folded paper texture"
  credit: "JJ Ying"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/WmnsGyaFnCQ"

---

There are multiple aspects to the performance of a typical Rails applications: database queries, view render time, fragment caching, and more. There are also considerations for the front-end: image compression, Javascript, and CSS size.

We often use CDNs, compression, and minification for the assets (images, CSS, and JS) our applications use. However, many hosts ([including Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/compressing-http-messages-with-gzip)) do not compress the HTML that is generated by our applications by default.


## Ensure...

you compress the HTML output being sent from your app with gzip using `Rack::Deflater`.

### `config/application.rb`

```ruby
# ...
module DreamCoverage
  class Application < Rails::Application
    # ...
    config.middleware.use Rack::Deflater
    # ...
  end
end
```


## Why?

Compressing 'text-based' resources (i.e. the HTML or JSON your views generate) is a [standard performance recommendation from Google](https://web.dev/uses-text-compression/).

In most cases text-based responses compress _really_ well. I’ve seen compression of 20x on some of our more “HTML-repetative” `#index` actions at work, but 4x is typical on smaller pages. It makes an even bigger differenceto performance on mobile, where the network is more of a bottleneck.

You might find _spectacular_ savings depending on your HTML output if you're using [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com), [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) or another framework that result in repetative class names in the HTML.

This (sadly!) doesn't absolve you of other performance work. If your database queries are slow or your views take a long time to generate you’ll still need to address that, as these compression savings occur after the page has rendered.


## Why not?

It is entirely possible you already serve your application from behind a CDN, like Fastly or Cloudflare, that automatically compresses your HTML & JSON responses. You won't need `Rack::Deflater` in these cases.

There will be a small increase in processing time for your user's devices as they decompress the response, but this is _vastly_ outweighed by the time savings made from sending the compressed response over the Internet.
